README.md, before:

# Help and Documentation

* Email Support: http://zfsonlinux.org/lists.html
* FAQs and Tutorials: https://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-zfs/wiki

Direct wiki edits for most things are welcome, but if you want to make a major change, then please create a new page or fork the wiki repo and submit a pull request.


# Packaging for ZFS on Linux

The home for this git repository is:

* https://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-spl

ZoL packages at https://launchpad.net/~zfs-native (the PPA) and
http://archive.zfsonlinux.org/debian/ are built from this repository using the
git-buildpackage tool.


## Casual Build Instructions

If you are using APT to install ZoL, then just do quick builds like this:
```
$ apt-get source --build spl-linux
```
This requires a corresponding `deb-src` line for each `deb` line in the
`/etc/apt/sources.list.d` file for ZoL.


## Developer Build Instructions

1. Clone this repository:
  ```
  $ git clone git://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-spl.git
  $ cd pkg-spl
  ```

1. List the current releases by branch name:
  ```
  $ git branch --list 'master/*'
  ```

1. Or list previous releases by tag name:
  ```
  $ git tag --list 'master/*'
  ```

1. Optionally pull the latest upstream code:
  ```
  $ git checkout upstream
  $ git pull git://github.com/zfsonlinux/spl.git master
  ```
(Use `git remote add` and `git remote set-branches` if you do this frequently.)

1. Checkout the branch name or tag name that you want to build.  For example,
the latest code for Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr is:
  ```
  $ git checkout master/ubuntu/trusty
  ```
  
1. Optionally merge the upstream code.
  ```
  $ git merge upstream
  ```
(Don't ignore merge conflicts. Learn how to use a `git mergetool` if this happens.)

1. Optionally update the `debian/changelog` file.
  ```
  $ git-dch --auto --commit
  ```

1. Now compile the software:
  ```
  $ git-buildpackage -uc -us --source-option=--auto-commit
  ```

1. And clean the working tree afterwards by doing this:
  ```
  $ rm .gitignore
  $ git clean -df
  $ git reset --hard
  ```

# Release Instructions

1. Build a binary+source release like this:
  ```
  $ git-buildpackage --git-tag [-sa|-sd]
  ```
(The `-sa` switch means "upload a new upstream tarball" for an out-series
build. The `-sd` switch means "only upload the new overlay" for an in-series
build.)

1. Synchronize the release bucket to your working copy.
  ```
  $ s3cmd sync --dry-run s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/ ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  $ s3cmd sync s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/ ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  ```

1. Update the release bucket like this:
  ```
  $ cd ./archive/zfsonlinux.org/debian/
  $ reprepro include wheezy /tmp/zfs-linux_${version}_amd64.changes
  ```

1. Do a local installation in a clean sandbox to ensure that the `Release` and
`Sources` files are sensible.

1. Give notice that you're touching the release bucket, and synchronize the new
packages:
  ```
  $ s3cmd sync --dry-run ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/ s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  $ s3cmd sync ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/ s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  ```

(Ideally, you would sync the pool first, and then sync the meta to ensure the
smallest possible window of inconsistency.)


## Upstream Repositories

The `upstream` branch in this repository is an unmodified copy of the
http://github.com/zfsonlinux/spl.git mainline.

Commit message:

Made a note about remote zol zfs repository (Really Closes #141) for Debian GNU/Linux.

README.md, after:

# Help and Documentation

* Email Support: http://zfsonlinux.org/lists.html
* FAQs and Tutorials: https://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-zfs/wiki

Direct wiki edits for most things are welcome, but if you want to make a major change, then please create a new page or fork the wiki repo and submit a pull request.


# Packaging for ZFS on Linux

The home for this git repository is:

* https://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-spl

The Debian GNU/Linux Wheezy and Jessie tags assumes having upstream ZOL
ZFS repository as a remote:
```
git remote add zol http://github.com/zfsonlinux/spl.git
```

ZoL packages at https://launchpad.net/~zfs-native (the PPA) and
http://archive.zfsonlinux.org/debian/ are built from this repository using the
git-buildpackage tool.


## Casual Build Instructions

If you are using APT to install ZoL, then just do quick builds like this:
```
$ apt-get source --build spl-linux
```
This requires a corresponding `deb-src` line for each `deb` line in the
`/etc/apt/sources.list.d` file for ZoL.


## Developer Build Instructions

1. Clone this repository:
  ```
  $ git clone git://github.com/zfsonlinux/pkg-spl.git
  $ cd pkg-spl
  ```

1. List the current releases by branch name:
  ```
  $ git branch --list 'master/*'
  ```

1. Or list previous releases by tag name:
  ```
  $ git tag --list 'master/*'
  ```

1. Optionally pull the latest upstream code:
  ```
  $ git checkout upstream
  $ git pull git://github.com/zfsonlinux/spl.git master
  ```
(Use `git remote add` and `git remote set-branches` if you do this frequently.)

1. Checkout the branch name or tag name that you want to build.  For example,
the latest code for Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr is:
  ```
  $ git checkout master/ubuntu/trusty
  ```
  
1. Optionally merge the upstream code.
  ```
  $ git merge upstream
  ```
(Don't ignore merge conflicts. Learn how to use a `git mergetool` if this happens.)

1. Optionally update the `debian/changelog` file.
  ```
  $ git-dch --auto --commit
  ```

1. Now compile the software:
  ```
  $ git-buildpackage -uc -us --source-option=--auto-commit
  ```

1. And clean the working tree afterwards by doing this:
  ```
  $ rm .gitignore
  $ git clean -df
  $ git reset --hard
  ```

# Release Instructions

1. Build a binary+source release like this:
  ```
  $ git-buildpackage --git-tag [-sa|-sd]
  ```
(The `-sa` switch means "upload a new upstream tarball" for an out-series
build. The `-sd` switch means "only upload the new overlay" for an in-series
build.)

1. Synchronize the release bucket to your working copy.
  ```
  $ s3cmd sync --dry-run s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/ ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  $ s3cmd sync s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/ ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  ```

1. Update the release bucket like this:
  ```
  $ cd ./archive/zfsonlinux.org/debian/
  $ reprepro include wheezy /tmp/zfs-linux_${version}_amd64.changes
  ```

1. Do a local installation in a clean sandbox to ensure that the `Release` and
`Sources` files are sensible.

1. Give notice that you're touching the release bucket, and synchronize the new
packages:
  ```
  $ s3cmd sync --dry-run ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/ s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  $ s3cmd sync ./archive.zfsonlinux.org/ s3://archive.zfsonlinux.org/
  ```

(Ideally, you would sync the pool first, and then sync the meta to ensure the
smallest possible window of inconsistency.)


## Upstream Repositories

The `upstream` branch in this repository is an unmodified copy of the
http://github.com/zfsonlinux/spl.git mainline.
